---
title: Telephoning
date: 2019-12-05 00:48:12
tags:
  - SPEAKING
---
## Cold calling
> Do you have a moment to speak to me?

### USEFUL TIPS 
When cold calling (approaching **prospective clients or customers** for the first time), keep the following points in mind:
- **Be clear and concise** about who you are and the purpose of the call;
- **Use questions** to help and guide the person you are calling;
- **Always use titles** (such as Dr., Mr., and Ms.) and never first names;
- **Don't be offended by hostile behavior.** It's not personal;

### Track 24
Macey C: This is Macey Chance from Turner & Young Consultants. Am I speaking to Mr. Given?
Speaker 1: No.
<!--more-->

Mr. H: Trancross Power and Gas, project management office.
MC: Good morning. **Am I speaking to** Mr. Harvey?
Mr. H: Speaking.
MC: Oh hello, Mr. Harvey. **This is Macey Chance from** Turner & Young Consultants.
Mr. H: Oh, yes.
MC: **Do you have a moment to speak to me?**
Mr. H: Um... well, yeah.
MC: Thank you. **My company specializes in** helping power industry companies manage risk, Mr. Harvey. **Do you think that's something that might be of interest to you?**
Mr. H: Er... well, we have risk management plans in place, you know.
MC: I'm sure! But **may I ask you a question,** Mr. Harvey? Do you have plans in place for handling risks generated by climate change?
Mr. H: Um, it depends on what you mean exactly. Of course, we have plans in place for damage to our power plants from bad weather.
MC: Well, managing short-term risk is very important of course. But **would you like to find out about** ways to manage risk caused by long-term adjustments to weather patterns? I'm thinking about global warming and the impact that will have on energy supplies.
Mr. H: Um, that's very unpredictable, isn't it?
MC: Yes, you're quite right, Mr. Harvey. And very risky. That's why my company specializes in designing plans that minimize the risks for companies like yours. **Would it be possible to arrange a meeting where I could explain** our services in more detail?
Mr. H: Well, it could be interesting.
MC: Fine. **When's a good time for you,** Mr. Harvey?
Mr. H: Er, let me just check my appointments. Um, how about Friday this week, 2 PM?

## Confirming or rearranging appointments
> I look forward to seeing you then.

### USEFUL TIPS
Once you have fixed your appointment with a business partner, **telephone a couple of days beforehand** to confirm the details of your meeting. Keep the following points in mind:
- Confirm the **topic, date, time and place**;
- Be ready with **alternative appointment times** if the original time has to be changed;
- Check to see if the customer has **any new requests**;

### Track 29
#### 1
Sabine G: Sabine Gerland.
Robbie T: Hello, Ms. Gerland. This is Robbie Taylor from Queensfield Ltd. How are you?
SG: Fine, thanks. And you?
RT: Very well. **I'm just ringing to confirm our appointment for Tuesday afternoon at 3 PM** to discuss our project management services for the Potsdam project.
SG: Yes, that's right. I'm looking forward to it.
RT: **Can I just check the address? That's Quiddestrasse 14, isn't it?**
SG: Er, no, Quiddestrasse 40.
RT: Right, 40, OK. And **could you spell Quidde for me?**
SG: Of course. That's Q-U-I-D-D-E. If you go to our website, you'll find full directions.
RT: Right. Thanks. So, **I look forward to seeing you then**.

#### 2
RT: Queensifield Ltd. Robbie Taylor.
Gerhard S: Oh hi, this is Gerhard Schmidt calling from Hipax in Berlin.
RT: Oh, hello Mr. Schmidt. How are you?
GS: I'm fine, thank you. And you?
RT: I'm well, thanks.
GS: Good. I'm afraid I have to cancel our meeting next Tuesday morning. I'm going to be away visiting one of our key customers.
RT: **No problem. Would Wednesday afternoon be more convenient?**
GS: Unfortunately not. One colleague I wanted to come to our meeting will be in Paris and I'll be in Munich.
RT: I see. Well, **would you like me to arrange a telephone conference** instead?
GS: Mmm, that's a good idea. We're both free at 2 PM on Wednesday. Will you email me the details?
RT: Of course. Actually, I wanted to call you anyway, Mr. Schmidt. **Would you or your colleagues be interested in any of our other project management services, like logistics, for example?**

## Making a complaint on the telephone
> I'm afraid I need to make a complaint.

### USEFUL TIPS
When making a complaint, keep the following points in mind:
- Make sure you are speaking to **the person who is in a position to help you**. Ask questions to check who exactly you are talking to and take notes;
- Stay as unemotional as possible. Blaming the person you are calling will not help. **Separate the problem from the person.** Be firm, but polite;
- State the problem clearly and calmly. **Include as much relevant detail as possible,** including names, times, places, pervious contacts, and so on;
- **State exactly what you want** the person you are calling to do;
- Check **when you can expect results/feedback** from the person you are speaking to;

### Track 34
Receptionist: Alpine Executive Events Ltd, London. Priti Makesch speaking. How can I help you?
Andrea K: Good morning, my name is Andrea King. I'm the HR manager for Carabella Hotels. **Could I speak to your supervisor, please?**
R: Can I ask what it's regarding?
AK: **I need to make a complaint.**
R: I'll just put you through to Mr. Mendip. One moment, please.

George M: Good morning, Ms. King. How can I help?
AK: Good morning. **Could you tell me your name and position, please?**
GM: Of course, my name's George Mendip and I'm responsible for customer relations.
AK: Thank you, Mr. Mendip. **I'll just make a note of that.** I hope you can help me. I'm currently attending your team-building training course in Wales with a team of our managers.
GM: The "Big T" course. Very popular.
AK: Well, **I'm afraid I'm not satisfied with** the performance of your trainer, David Llewellyn.
GM: Oh dear. What seems to be the problem?
AK: He's very unhelpful and doesn't explain himself properly.
GM: How do you mean?
AK: Well, he talks extremely fast and makes all the instructions very complicated. And if you ask him a question, he just says he's already explained it. I tried to talk to him about the problem, but he didn't take me seriously at all. The situation is entirely unsatisfactory.
GM: I see... Well, I'm sorry to hear that, but I'm not sure what I can do.
AK: **I'd like you to** telephone Mr. Llewellyn immediately and explain that we want much clearer explanations and support for tomorrow's tasks.
GM: Well, OK, I could give him a ring.
AK: And **could you let me know when you have** spoken to him, please?
GM: Yes, I will.
AK: **When will you get back to me?** Do you have my number?
GM: I think so... Yes, I do. I'll back to you by, um, the end of today.
AK: Many thanks. I really appreciate your help on this.
GM: Not at all.

## Dealing with a complaint on the telephone
> Oh dear, I'm sorry to hear that.

### USEFUL TIPS
When dealing with a complaint, keep the following points in mind:
- Let the caller express their complaint. **Don't interrupt,** but try to get all the details. **Take notes**;
- Once they have finished complaining, **summarize the complaint,** clarify any unclear details and show empathy;
- Apologize. **Don't try to make excuses** but provide an explanation if the customer requests one;
- State **what you are going to do** to resolve the situation;
- Tell the customer **when they can expect results/feedback**;
- Stay calm with the customer at all times. **Separate the problem from the person**;

### Track 39
Kelly M: Argonaut Mediterranean Cruises Ltd.
Tony H: Ah, this is Tony Hopps here. Is that Kelly Masterman, the general manager?
KM: Speaking.
TH: Ah, right. Well, you listen here. Ms. Masterman. I've just arrived home from one of your eastern Mediterranean cruise ships - Queen of the Waves - and I'm not at all happy. I've got a whole list of complaints.
KM: **Oh dear, I'm sorry to hear that.** Let me just get a pen and I'll note them down. Right, **can you give me the details?**
TH: Well, first of all, we booked an expensive cabin on the outside of the ship. But there was a problem with that cabin and there were no others available on the outside. So we had to have one in the middle of the ship and my wife spent 3 days feeling really seasick. Then, for the buffet lunch, it was supposed to be an all-you-can-eat buffet, but when we got there at 2 PM, we found that there were only a few bits of cheese and salad left for us. And then, in the programme for Saturday evening, it said there was a fancy-dress party. So we dressed up, but we found that everybody else was just in jeans and T-shirts. It was so embarrassing!
KM: Oh, **you must have felt terrible!**
TH: Yes, we did. And finally, I sent my costume to the ship's laundry to be cleaned and it got lost. That really was the last straw!
KM: **So, let me just recap.** In a nutshell, you didn't get the cabin you ordered, the buffet lunch was finished by the time you got there, the fancy-dress party listed in the programme didn't take place, and your costume was lost.
TH: That's right.
KM: Well, first of all, we're not going to try to pass the buck here, so **we would like to apologize to you for** these problems. This is what I propose: I'm going to call the ship and see if I can find out what was going on. Can I call you back in 20 minutes?
TH: Um... yes, that's fine. Do you have my number? It's...

TH: Tony Hopps speaking.
KM: Hello, Mr. Hoops. It's Kelly Masterman. I spoke to the ship's first officer. It seems that the porthole in your cabin was broken by the previous passenger and water was coming in. But he apologized for not explaining what the problem was to you. **I'm afraid we can't refund** the whole cost of the trip, but we can refund you the extra cost for the cabin that you didn't have.
TH: Hmm, that doesn't seem much. And my fancy-dress costume?
KM: On our website you can find a document for insurance claims. Send in the form and **we'll deal with that within a week.** But, as I said, **we are really very sorry for** these difficulties. So, **we would like to offer you** a 10% discount the next time you book an Argonaut holiday **as compensation for** the problems you had. Is that acceptable to you, Mr. Hoops?
TH: Well, er, yes, I think that sounds reasonable.
